>> Jason Pamental: So what I thought
I'd do, is I'm gonna start out
with just taking that page with plex.
So this is in the part-05 folder.
>> Jason Pamental: I'm
gonna actually make a copy of this,
and strip out a few things so
we can see what it looks like
without any of this stuff in place.
>> Jason Pamental: So If I just yank all
of this stuff out of here,
what we end up with is
still a perfectly valid readable page.
It's just not gonna have any of
the styling and I can even take out
all of the CSS.
>> Jason Pamental: And if I go back and
look at this in the browser.
>> Jason Pamental: So It may not be
pretty, but it's an h1, an h2, some text,
it's all broken up in paragraphs,
there's still a block quote set apart.
It's not the easiest thing, but
if that's what got delivered,
somebody could still read it.
And because we haven't put any explicit
impositions on it, it's going to work and
reflow and still be usable no
matter what device you view it on.
So this is about enhancing now.
So we want to build up and
experience from there and so
you know the easy thing to do
is simply add in the styles.
And that's going to bring it back
to looking like it should look.
But it's not really going
to have the whole picture.
So if I put those things back in, I still
don't have any of the JavaScript loading
in there which means we're also
not gonna get the class switching.
But what we can get is the basic page.
So all we've really done
is look at, excuse me.
And one thing that I didn't mention about
this, the way this project is set up.
I am using NPM to add
a bunch of stuff in there for
Gulp to run SASS and
a little local server.
It's not necessary.
I've checked in all of the compiled CSS,
that's all in the CSS folder.
You don't have to run all of
this build process stuff.
It is a little bit cumbersome,
it's just more of a convenience for
me to write the CSS faster this way.
So that it keeps it a little bit clean and
neater for you at the end.
So this is the web font declarations.
So this is the same file that's
being loaded on all of them.
Just so I don't have to make a bunch
of them tailored for each project.
The important thing to note
is just because you have it
in your @font-face declaration doesn't
mean those files are gonna get loaded.
So that's actually not a problem to list
every possible variant that you might
call in here until you reference it in
your CSS with a font family declaration.
Then it won't trigger
a download on those files.
So this is where you put
things like font display.
So for a standard web font like
these ones for Plex Serif,
the way you would load them.
So this is kind of our standard
kind of body copyish sort of thing.
So we're loading the regular and
giving it the keywords normal for
style and font weight.
And that means that the browser will
equate it to whatever normal is.
Then when it's bold we just specify
font weight bold, font style italic, or
bold italic.
Notice the font family is the same.
So that's how you can tell the browser
to behave, when I have specified
this font family if I use a strong tag,
reference this font file.
If I use an italic,
That way you don't have
a browser faking it.
Because some will, and
it looks really terrible.
You wanna make sure that you're
calling a proper italic type face, or
a proper bold type face, so
that it actually has the design that
the designer actually intended,
without some of the muddiness or
incorrect characters being shown by
a browser trying to fake an italic.
So-
>> Student: Wait,
we might be faking it.
>> Jason Pamental: So
technically they call it synthesizing it.
Firefox will do this in particular and
I think it's a terrible practise.
I think Chrome does it as well.
if took this out here and
didn't include an actual
italic mapped this way and
I set some text with the font family
of Plex Serif and then wrapped an m
tag around it or an i tag,
the browser will fake an italic out of it.
It will take that typeface and
try and render it slanted.
And the problem with that is it's quite
often going to be not at a particularly
readable angle for that type face and
it's also gonna be missing out on
the correct spacing and clip substitution.
So it may be readable and
some people might not notice but
it's not really going to be
particularly correct or desirable from
a truth to the design standpoint.
>> Jason Pamental: There are a lot of
people in the web community
from a development and
performance perspective who think it's
a good thing that browsers will do that.
I have never encountered anybody who
actually cares about design to think
that's an acceptable thing.
It's sort of unfortunate that browsers
adopted that practice in the first place.
Because in most cases,
especially when you're dealing,
previously when we were dealing with
system fonts, italics were always there.
It didn't matter.
There was no reason for the browser to
actually do that in the first place,
because that stuff was already
available on the system